# double_pendulum_rk4
Code for the simulation of the problem of the double pendulum via the Runge-Kunta method.

In this code I use the RK4 method to solve the Double Pendulum. There are two sets of equations that can be used to describe the motions of the pendulum: equations1 and equations2. equations1 takes uses the angles theta1 and theta2 and their associated generalized momenta p1, p2, respectively. It then calculates with a time step of dt the evolution of these values. The equations used can be found in https://scienceworld.wolfram.com/physics/DoublePendulum.html. equations2 does the same thing, but, instead of using the generalized momenta, it uses the angular velocities w1, w2 of the masses of the pendulum. The equations for the progression of these values can be found in https://www.myphysicslab.com/pendulum/double-pendulum-en.html.

Furthermore, there is a function called simula_pendulo, that takes three values, x0, y0, tf and dt. x0 is a vector with the physical values of the masses, lengths of the conecting rods and local gravity. y0 is a vector containing the initial values of theta1, theta2, w1 and w2. tf is the length of time for which the pendulum will be simulated, and dt is the time step of each calculated point. This function is the one that makes graphs of the evolution of this system, and can be modified to graph the quantities that interest you. In the original version, it makes a comparison of generalized momenta p1 and p2 calculated with equations1 and equations2.
